# 20.03 Haskell
* Related: [../21/21.01.monads](../21/21.01.monads)
* Haskell Stack to deploy/build haskell? https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/README/

## Learn you a haskell 
### 2. Starting out
* successor function called succ.
* >succ 8
* >9
* Similarly min and max functions
* >min 2 3
* >2
* lists are a homogenous data structure (same type)
* >let lostNumbers = [4,8,15,16,23,42]
* Strings are a list of chars
* ++ combines two lists but walks through the left list so inefficient
* >5:[2, 3]
* >[5, 2, 3]
* : is the cons operator and does combine instantly
 * [1,2,3] is just syntactic sugar for 1:2:3:[]
* Use !! to get element from list:
```
>[1,2] !! 1
>2
```
* Functions on lists:
  * head returns first element
  * tail returns everything except the head
  * last returns last element
  * init returns everything except last
  * length gives you size of list
  * null checks if list is empty
  * reverse reverses a list
  * *take* takes out first n elements from list, e.g: take 1 [1,2] >[1]
  * *drop* drops the first n elements from a list
  * *maximum* returns largest, minimum smallest
  * *sum* returns sum
  * *elem* returns whether element is member of list
* Lists can also have ranges, e.g: `[1..20]`

*List Comprehension*
  * [<output function> | <input set> , <predicate> ]
  * e.g: [x*2 | x <- [1..10]] is the first 10 numbers multiplied by 2
  * We can add predicate. eg:
```
>[x*2 | x <- [1..5], x /= 3]
>[2, 4, 8, 10]
```
  * We can have several predicates if we want
  * We can use _ if we're not using the variable in our input set
  * E.g: sum [1 | _ <- xs] will return length of xs
  * Tuples (1, 2) are like lists, but they can have different types
  * A tuple with a specific size and with specific types as elements is it's own type.
  * So you can't have [(1, 2), (1, 'a')]
  * Tuples of size 2 are pairs
  * fst returns first element of pair, snd the second
  * zip takes two list and combines their elements into pairs

### 3. Types and Typeclasses
*Believe the Type*
* Haskell has a static type system
* But unlike java, haskell has type inference. e.g: you don't have to tell the type of a variable that stores a number


## Write yourself a Scheme in 48 hours
https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Write_Yourself_a_Scheme_in_48_Hours

Side note: on arch, had to install `ghc-static` or pass the `-dynamic` flag to get stuff to compile
# 1
```
module Main where
import System.Environment

main :: IO ()
main = do
  args <- getArgs
  putStrLn ("Hello, " ++ args !! 0)
```
* Every haskell program begins with an action called `main` in a module named `Main`
* `main :: IO ()` is a type declaration. The type of `main` is `IO ()` 
* `()` is the unit type. 
* type decls are optional in haskell
* IO type is an instance of the *Monad* class:
  * there is extra information attached to this value
  * most functions do not need to worrry about these pieces of information.
* For IO, the 'extra info' is IO actions can be performed using the carried along values, while the basic value is void (represented as `()`)
* Both `IO [String]` and `IO ()` belong to the same `IO` monad type but have different base types.

* We use a `do` block which consists of a series of lines. Each line can have one of two forms:
  * `name <- action1`
  * `action2`
* The first line _binds_ `action1` to `name` and it will remain bound in all subsequent actions
* The bind operator has different semantics for each monad:
  * In the case of the IO monad, it executes the actions sequentially.
* Thus, you cannot use actions of different monad types in the same do-block.

* `args !! 0` returns the first element of the args list. And we concatenate it to the string.
* This is passed on to `putStrLn` which creates a new IO action.
* The do block actions, combined as a sequence is an action of type `IO ()` and stored in `main`

* The haskell system notices this and executes the action in it.

* 
* 
* 
* 
