# 11.02 - Learn Vim

* Change dir to current open file: `lcd %:p:h/`
* Yank everything in current buffer to clipboard: `%y+`

## Floating terminal
* `<c-\><c-n>` to get normal mode in floating terminal to allow scrolling, etc

## VIM
* Cool search and replace to turn `.setBlah()` to `.blah()`: `%s/\.set\([A-Z])/\.\L\1/gc`

* Autoreload files: https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/149209/refresh-changed-content-of-file-opened-in-vim/383044#383044

* In a vim helpfile, use `Ctrl+]` to follow a link
* To count number of words in current buffer: `g <C-g>`
* `gv` will reselect whatever you selected with visual mode
* To resize vim splits equally: `<C-w> + =`
* To swap left and right splits in Vim: `<C-w> + R`



## Primogen tutorial
* `*` essentially forward searches the current word under the cursor and `#` goes back.

### Vimtutor
* `U` to undo everything on the line
* Can also go to line by typing `<linenum>G`
* `wrapscan` can be unset to disallow wrap on searches
* `%` to go to matching brace
* `R` to start replacing with a replace cursor

#### Folding
```
zr reduces fold level throughout the buffer
zR opens all folds
zm increases fold level throughout the buffer
zM folds everything all the way
za open a fold your cursor is on
zA open a fold your cursor is on recursively
zc close a fold your cursor is on
zC close a fold your cursor is on recursively
```

### Practical VIM: Ch 2
* <C-a>/<C-x> to increment/decrement first number found on line
* [D] Note: add `set nrformats=` to vimrc so it doesn't consider numbers like 001 octal  #22e5b51f
* gU/gu makes lower upper case whatever. Ex: gUaw will upper case that word. gUU for current line.
* After adding the vim-commentary plugin, use gc<Something> to comment/uncomment. gcc will comment line
Ch 3: Insert mode
* <C-w> while in insert mode will delete the word back.
* <C-u> will delete the entire line.
* <C-c> or <C-[> both take you back to normal mode.
* <C-o> takes you to insert normal mode which lets you do one command and dumps you back in insert mode.
* Btw, `zz` redraws the screen with the current line right in the middle.
* <C-r>0 to do the same as `p` paste while in insert mode. (More on this later).
* <C-r>= opens expression register where you can write vimscript and the result is inserted on <CR>
* `R` while in normal mode puts it in insert mode as if you pressed the insert key


